this is Nick and this is me Liz today we
are going to take up a lot of space on
the subway in the United States use of
public transportation is growing
significantly faster than use of
highways and with more crowded subway
cars come new social issues the latest
is a phenomenon dubbed man spreading
here in New York the Transit Authority
has actually responded and plans to
launch an awareness campaign in the
coming months but how do people in real
life actually respond to man's running
and would they act differently if there
were a woman instead of a man on the
subway Nick has little issue pushing his
way to an open seat and assuming
position stop after stop no one pays any
attention to him I managed to get away
with my own version of man spreading too
but not without feeling like people were
glaring at me
my posture alone seems to be a spectacle
one that some subway riders immediately
notice and feel compelled to record with
their phones to post online or share
with their friends
Nick's legs spread wider and wider as
this train fills up a group of four is
forced to stand right up against Nick as
he takes up three seats no one appears
to even notice the behavior may have
come very naturally to Nick but for me
well not so much I'm always cross-legged
I'm in the subway I always like my guy
bag on me even if there's no one
standing I feel like awful well kind of
rude on the subway to be good with
wasn't like that think of a change today
I feel good if I really empower him
I felt empowering you might see like you
felt better after doing it I don't know
I don't know if I want to go that far
how could taking up all of that
unnecessary space mechanic feel
empowered research shows that people who
take expansive body postures feel more
confident and successful but scientists
at MIT also found expansive postures
make subjects feel more entitled
prompting increased cheating and
stealing behavior so it's possible that
mad spreading breeds bigger problems
than just uncomfortable subway rides
thankfully not everyone let Nick get
away with his wide
dominance
you move it you move it you want
although manspreading may feel
liberating collectively standing up to
it empowers us all it's actually not
that hard it turns out that being just a
little bit aware of what's going on
around you can take an immediate issue
and turn it into an opportunity for
progress even if that issue is just an
arrogant Pro spreading his manhood
across three seats